<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<title>Test for Rindolf</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="restyle.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
<div class="master">
<div class="wrapper">
<div class="nav_menu">
    <h2>Navigation</h2>

    <ul class="navbarmain">
<li>
<b>Shlomi Fish's Homepage</b>
</li>
<li>
<a href="me/">About Myself</a>
<br />
<ul class="navbarnested">
<li>
<a href="personal.html" title="A Short Biography of Myself">Bio</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="me/contact-me/" title="How to Contact Me">Contact Me</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="me/resumes/">My Resum&eacute;s</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="me/personal-ad.html" title="My Personal Ad: what I'm looking for in a prospective girlfriend and what I can add to the relationship.">Personal Ad</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="me/blogs/" title="Links to my online journals.">My Weblogs</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="me/interviews/" title="Interviews that were conducted with me">Interviews</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<a href="work/" title="Work-Related Pages">Work</a>
<br />
<ul class="navbarnested">
<li>
<a href="work/hire-me/" title="I'm a Geek for Hire">Hire Me!</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<a href="humour/" title="My Humorous Creations">Humour</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="puzzles/" title="Puzzles, Riddles and Brain-teasers">Puzzles</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="art/" title="Computer art I created while explaining how.">Computer Art</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="open-source/" title="Pages related to Software (mostly Open-Source)">Software</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="lecture/" title="Presentations I Wrote (Mostly Technical)">Lectures</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="philosophy/" title="Various Essays and Articles about Technology and Philosophy in General">Essays</a>
</li>
</ul>
<ul class="navbarmain">
<li>
<a href="links.html" title="An incomplete list of links I find cool and/or useful.">Cool Links</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="recommendations/" title="Recommendations of Books, Compact Discs, Movies, etc.">Recommendations</a>
</li>
</ul>
<ul class="navbarmain">
<li>
<a href="site-map/" title="A site map showing all of the main pages.">Site Map</a>
</li>
</ul>
<ul class="navbarmain">
<li>
<a href="meta/" title="Information about this Site">Meta Info</a>
<br />
<ul class="navbarnested">
<li>
<a href="meta/FAQ/" title="Frequently Asked Questions and Answers List (FAQ)">FAQ</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="meta/privacy-policy/">Privacy Policy</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="meta/site-source/" title="The source code used to generate this site">Site's Source</a>
</li>
<li>
<a href="meta/how-to-help/" title="How you can help promote this site">How to Help</a>
<br />
<ul class="navbarnested">
<li>
<a href="meta/donate/">Please Donate</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<a href="meta/hosting/" title="About this site's hosting provider.">Hosting</a>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>

</div>

<div class="main" id="main">
<h1>Shlomi Fish's Humorous Creations</h1>
<p>
I very much enjoy humorous things and like to laugh or be amused a lot.
Since I was 19 years old, I've also been creating my own funny pieces,
and decided to put them on this web-site for everybody to see. I hope
you enjoy reading them as much as I enjoyed writing them, and still
enjoy thinking about them.
And if you're someone who likes to play <a
href="http://www.pokerstars.com/">poker</a> a lot, I hope you can still spend
some time with these funny pieces. Who knows? You might get a kick out of it
too.
</p>
<h2 id="large-scale">Large-scale Creations</h2>
<h3 id="the-enemy-series">"The Enemy" Series</h3>
<div style="margin-left : 3em">
<p>
This is a series of stories telling the whereabouts of the ex-Member of the
Organization.
</p>
<h4 id="the-enemy"><a href="./TheEnemy/">The Enemy and How I Helped to Fight it</a></h4>
<p>
A political satire about the situation that prevailed in the Israeli-Lebanese
border. Lots of exits about mathematical logic, and a general critique of the
irrationality guiding political bodies.
</p>
<h4 id="road-to-heaven"><a href="./RoadToHeaven/">The Road to Heaven is Paved with Bad Intentions</a></h4>
<p>
The sequel to "The Enemy". The ex-Member travels back in time and tries to
prevent World War II.
</p>
</div>
<h3 id="one-with-fountainhead"><a href="./TOWTF/">The One with the Fountainhead</a></h3>
<p>
A two-part episode of Friends that parodies the book "The Fountainhead" by
Ayn Rand. Note that I received input from one person who is not familiar with
the show, yet enjoyed this work very much.
</p>
<h3 id="pope-died-on-sunday"><a href="./Pope/">The Pope Died on Sunday</a></h3>
<p>
A description of an insane week in the life of a female American
graphic artist. A typical Hollywoodian story with not so Hoywoodian elements.
Work under progress, and available only in Hebrew for the time being.
</p>
<h3 id="humanity"><a href="./humanity/">Humanity</a></h3>
<p>
A parody about humanity and modern life in particular. Humanity describes
a day in the life of a Semitic city circa 500 B.C. Work under progress.
</p>
<h3 id="human-hacking-field-guide"><a href="./human-hacking/">The Human Hacking Field Guide</a></h3>
<p>
A teen-story (sort-of), but one that will appeal to grown-ups as well. Also
may serve as propaganda for getting more youngsters involved in programming
and engineering.
</p>
<h3 id="we-the-living-dead"><a href="./Star-Trek/We-the-Living-Dead/">Star Trek: "We the Living
Dead"</a></h3>
<p>
My own invented episode of the new crop of Star Trek series. In this episode
we discover the true essence of the Q Continuum, and some "Living Dead":
conscious beings (including humans) who reportedly died, but actually
were saved and still live a prosperous life elsewhere.
</p>
<h2 id="small-scale">Small-scale Creations</h2>
<h3 id="quotes-collection"><a href="../humour.html">Collection of My Quotes and Aphorisms</a></h3>
<p>
A collection of funny or insightful bits and pieces I wrote and collected
throughout the years.
</p>
<h3 id="fortunes"><a href="../humour/fortunes/">Fortune Cookies Collection</a></h3>
<p>
A collection of files for the UNIX fortune program (that can also be read with
a naked eye) that consist of several collections of funny or enlightening
quotes.
</p>
<h3 id="way-to-do-it"><a href="ways_to_do_it.html">Ways to Do It According to the Programming Languages of the World</a></h3>
<p>
Take the Perl motto ("There's more than one way to do it") and extrapolate it
to the other programming languages out there.
</p>
<h3 id="wysiwyt"><a href="../wysiwyt.html">IRPWUG Announces Project WYSIWYT</a></h3>
<p>
The "International Really Pissed-off Windows Users Group" announces the project
"What you See is What you Think".
</p>
<h3 id="gpl-not-compatible"><a href="bits/GPL-is-not-Compatible-with-Itself/">The GPL is not
Compatible with Itself</a></h3>
<h3 id="rms-lint"><a href="bits/RMS-Lint/">Introducing RMS-Lint</a></h3>
<p>
Announcement of a tool to facilitate communication with
<a href="http://www.stallman.org/">Richard M. Stallman</a>. See also
<a href="http://slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=04/04/01/1344214">the
Slashdot discussion</a>.
</p>
<h3 id="facts"><a href="bits/facts/">Collections of Facts about People and Things</a></h3>
<p>
Continuing the <a href="bits/facts/Chuck-Norris/">Chuck Norris Facts</a>
paradigm for other entities like <a href="bits/facts/Larry-Wall/">Larry
Wall</a> and <a href="bits/facts/XSLT/">XSLT</a>.
</p>
<h2 id="by-others"><a href="by-others/">By Others</a></h2>
<p>
Humorous creations by other people that are kept here for posterity.
(Probably because they disappeared from the Internet).
</p>
<h2 id="recommendations"><a href="recommendations/">Media Recommendations</a></h2>
<p>
Media Recommendations of films, fiction books, etc.
</p>

</div>
<div class="about_site">

    <h2>About this site</h2>
    <div class="inner">
<p>
This is the personal site of <a href="personal.html"><b>Shlomi Fish</b></a>. I
am an Israeli software developer, and writer of stories, articles, essays and
presentations.
</p>
<p>
You can explore the site using the <a href="#navbar"><b>navigation bar</b></a>
to the
left. Alternatively, you can traverse it page by page using the <b>arrows at
the top</b>. Alternatively see <a href="#news">this site's <b>news feed</b></a>
for what's new here.
</p>
<p>
Here are some of the things you can find here:
</p>
<h3 id="humour"><a href="humour/">Humour</a></h3>
<p>
I enjoy writing <a href="./humour/stories">large-scope humorous
stories</a> (novellas). My first and favourite one was
<a href="./humour/TheEnemy/">"The Enemy"</a>, which is a political
satire, inspired by mid-eastern politics, but with a more universal
message. I also wrote <a href="./humour/TOWTF/">"The One with the
Fountainhead"</a>, which is my funniest piece yet, and
<a href="./humour/human-hacking/">"The Human
Hacking Field Guide"</a>, which is a not-so-realistic realism about
open-source enthusiastic teenagers, but with many jokes.
</p>
<p>
I have other unfinished stories.
</p>
<p>
I have also written many <a href="humour/bits/">shorter bits</a> and
maintain
<a href="humour/fortunes/">a large collection of fortune cookies</a> by
myself and others.
</p>
<h3 id="philosophy"><a href="philosophy/">Articles and Essays</a></h3>
<p>
I am <a href="philosophy/politics/define-zionism/">a Jew and an Israeli</a>
by nationality, an atheist by faith, and <a
href="philosophy/philosophy/guide-to-neo-tech/">a "Neo-Tech"
Objectivist</a> by ideology. (Objectivism
<a href="./humour/fortunes/shlomif-fav.html#neo-tech-selfishness">does
not imply selfishness</a>, by the way, but rather "Rational Self-Growth".)
My expertise as a software developer (in many fields), and my interest
in philosophy, history, software management, and other fields also contribute
to my essays and articles.
</p>
<h3 id="open-source"><a href="open-source/">Open Source Software</a></h3>
<p>
Links to software I wrote, and some resources with links to other software.
Knock yourself out!
</p>
<h3 id="presentations"><a href="lecture/">Presentations</a></h3>
<p>
I prepared several technical presentations. Especially recommended is the
<a href="lecture/Perl/Newbies/">"Perl for Newbies" series</a>
introducing <a href="http://perl-begin.org/">the Perl programming
language</a> to absolute beginners.
</p>
<h3 id="links"><a href="links.html">Links</a></h3>
<p>
There are many links on the site, but I also concentrated many of them in
one place. Who doesn't like links?
</p>
<h3>Enjoy!</h3>
<p>
I hope you enjoy my web-site. If you do, please
<a href="./meta/how-to-help/">link here</a> or recommend
it to your friends.
</p>
</div>

</div>

    </div>
<div class="footer">
<hr />
<div class="righty">
</div>
<div class="foot_left">
<p>
Written, designed and maintained by Shlomi Fish, <a href="mailto:shlomif@shlomifish.org">shlomif@shlomifish.org</a>.
</p>
<p>
If you like what you see here, or have any comments, suggestions or
corrections, feel free to E-mail me about it. I'd love to hear from you. If
you have found what I did helpful or entertaining, please consider
<a href="./meta/how-to-help/">helping</a>.
</p>
<p>
Style and look based on the
<a href="http://wordpress.org/extend/themes/smoked">Smoked WordPress Theme</a>
by <a href="http://wordpress.org/extend/themes/profile/iconstantin">iconstantin</a>.
</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
    </body>
</html>
