lib/notes/quality-software--followup-2018.md, before:

**WARNING!!** This file is now generated by lib/make/sf-essays.mak . DO NOT MODIFY directly!

# Introduction

**Note:** there is [a similar essay, by Niki Tonsky, titled “Software Disenchantment”](https://tonsky.me/blog/disenchantment/) and probably many other similar ones.

Moreover, I set-up [a List of Software Quality Enhancement Tools and Links](https://www.shlomifish.org/open-source/resources/software-quality-enhancement/) as an attempt to help in combatting this trend.

# Main

- Essay: reflections on how software quality has improved/worsened.
    - Follow-up on [”What Makes Software High-Quality” ( /philosophy/computers/high-quality-software/rev2/ )](http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/computers/high-quality-software/rev2/)
    - Follow-up on [“Optimizing Code for Speed” Wikibook](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Optimizing_Code_for_Speed)
    - Follow-up on [“Perl bad elements (bad practices) to avoid.”](http://perl-begin.org/tutorials/bad-elements/)
        - Follow-up on [C-and-C++ bad-elements](http://www.shlomifish.org/lecture/C-and-CPP/bad-elements/)
    - Follow-up on [“What are some best practices in software development that I should adopt?”](https://github.com/shlomif/Freenode-programming-channel-FAQ/blob/master/FAQ_with_ToC__generated.md#what-are-some-best-practices-in-programming-that-i-should-adopt)
    - Follow-up on [FAQ - “This site loads so quickly. What is your secret?”](https://www.shlomifish.org/meta/FAQ/site_loads_quickly.xhtml)
    - Freecell Solver speedups ( <https://github.com/shlomif/fc-solve/tree/master/fc-solve/benchmarks> ), new features ( <http://fc-solve.shlomifish.org/features.html> ), tests suite, Continuous Integration (CI), etc.
        - Cost of code complexity and readability
    - Learned about [Continuous Integration (CI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) from <https://perlhacks.com/2012/03/you-must-hate-version-control-systems/>
    - Since the essays were written, some apps improved while others got worse.
    - Electron-based apps:
        - [“The Atom Text Editor has been Able To Edit a 2,000,001 Bytes-Long File \[satire\]”](http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/Atom-Text-Editor-edits-2_000_001-bytes/)
        - [Benchmarks showing Electron apps are super slow and eat memory like there is no tomorrow : r/programming](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/73vua5/benchmarks_showing_electron_apps_are_super_slow/)
    - Software becoming slower and more resource hungry:
        - <https://medium.com/@okaleniuk/premature-optimization-is-the-root-of-all-evil-is-the-root-of-evil-a8ab8056c6b>
        - <https://twitter.com/TheoVanGrind/status/888850519564984322>
        - <https://twitter.com/xbs/status/626781529054834688>
    - Windows Update — slow:
        - [Windows Update Factoids](http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Windows-Update/)
        - Reportedly still breaks the system sometimes
        - Gets invoked at inconvenient times
            - Like at computer shutdown
    - Red Hat’s dnf
        - kinda slow
        - hopefully [will improve](https://rpm-software-management.github.io/announcement/2018/03/22/dnf-3-announcement/)
        - It did seem to improve, at least on my Fedora x86-64 systems. dnf version 5 may be even faster than its predecessors.
    - Mostly Positive: [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/)
        - Easy to use interface
        - As a general rule,: stable, fast, and predictable.
        - Also popular among many Windows and macOS users.
    - Mostly Positive: [Emscripten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emscripten) / asm.js / WebAssembly
    - Mostly Positive: [pypy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PyPy)
        - Fast
    - [KDE’s desktop environment (“Plasma”)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KDE) ’s update from 3 to 4 was poorly executed (there were many bugs and quirks), and so was the transition from 4 to 5.
        - Seems like most people except for the KDE core developers do not appreciate the emphasis on the so-called [“Activities”](https://askubuntu.com/questions/253990/what-is-a-activity-in-kde-and-what-can-i-do-with-it) instead of on virtual workspaces.
        - <https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=343246>
        - [http://www.trinitydesktop.org/ (Trinity Desktop Environment)](http://www.trinitydesktop.org/) - fork of KDE 3, continuing its spirit.
        - I mostly use Xfce, which is functional and fast. Like other desktop environments, one can run KDE applications on it.
    - Mostly Positive: [CMake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CMake)
        - Not perfect but less errorprone and faster than GNU Autotools
        - <http://www.shlomifish.org/open-source/anti/autohell/>
        - [Meson (build-tool)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meson_(software))
    - Reflections on “Simple” in the context of software:
        - <https://shlomif-tech.livejournal.com/64318.html>
        - “Simple” may imply lacking features or being hard to use.

## Comment I wrote

On <https://medium.com/@okaleniuk/premature-optimization-is-the-root-of-all-evil-is-the-root-of-evil-a8ab8056c6b> :

> Hi! Good article. I should note that based on what I wrote [here](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Optimizing_Code_for_Speed/Factor_Optimizations#Are_%22Small%22_Optimizations_Desirable?) — Prof. Knuth may have been wrong because many small optimisations eventually can add to a significant improvement. Perhaps sometimes an optimisation is not worth it because the program is already fast enough, but I feel that we have accumulated too much junk bloatware recently (see [my notes](https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/computers/high-quality-software/reflections-on-software-quality-trends/) ).
>
> Regarding the “it’s good there is more work for me”, this is the [broken window fallacy](https://shlomif-tech.livejournal.com/741.html) — and it is also echoed in the [“How to become a hacker (not ‘cracker’) howto”](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html). You likely have better things to do than to fix others’ past failures.

# Licence

This work is copyright by [Shlomi Fish](http://www.shlomifish.org/) and licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-Non Commercial-ShareAlike licence version 4.0 (CC-by-nc-sa)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/) (or any later version). See [my interpretation of it](http://www.shlomifish.org/meta/copyrights/).

Commit message:

quote/link to the less-than-3s tweet

lib/notes/quality-software--followup-2018.md, after:

**WARNING!!** This file is now generated by lib/make/sf-essays.mak . DO NOT MODIFY directly!

# Introduction

**Note:** there is [a similar essay, by Niki Tonsky, titled “Software Disenchantment”](https://tonsky.me/blog/disenchantment/) and probably many other similar ones.

Moreover, I set-up [a List of Software Quality Enhancement Tools and Links](https://www.shlomifish.org/open-source/resources/software-quality-enhancement/) as an attempt to help in combatting this trend.

# Main

- Essay: reflections on how software quality has improved/worsened.
    - Follow-up on [”What Makes Software High-Quality” ( /philosophy/computers/high-quality-software/rev2/ )](http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/computers/high-quality-software/rev2/)
    - Follow-up on [“Optimizing Code for Speed” Wikibook](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Optimizing_Code_for_Speed)
    - Follow-up on [“Perl bad elements (bad practices) to avoid.”](http://perl-begin.org/tutorials/bad-elements/)
        - Follow-up on [C-and-C++ bad-elements](http://www.shlomifish.org/lecture/C-and-CPP/bad-elements/)
    - Follow-up on [“What are some best practices in software development that I should adopt?”](https://github.com/shlomif/Freenode-programming-channel-FAQ/blob/master/FAQ_with_ToC__generated.md#what-are-some-best-practices-in-programming-that-i-should-adopt)
    - Follow-up on [FAQ - “This site loads so quickly. What is your secret?”](https://www.shlomifish.org/meta/FAQ/site_loads_quickly.xhtml)
    - Freecell Solver speedups ( <https://github.com/shlomif/fc-solve/tree/master/fc-solve/benchmarks> ), new features ( <http://fc-solve.shlomifish.org/features.html> ), tests suite, Continuous Integration (CI), etc.
        - Freecell Solver's MS 32,000 benchmark went below 3 seconds - [Git commit](https://github.com/shlomif/fc-solve/commit/5ca2b0d58acc37e21e5393aa7e534187dc722f29). This is largely thanks to the new [xxHash](http://cyan4973.github.io/xxHash/) . I recall that when we went below 6 seconds or so, someone told me we'll never go below 5 seconds… \#Optimization \#opensource

      [@shlomif Tweet](https://twitter.com/shlomif/status/1132302032310870016)

        - Cost of code complexity and readability
    - Learned about [Continuous Integration (CI)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) from <https://perlhacks.com/2012/03/you-must-hate-version-control-systems/>
    - Since the essays were written, some apps improved while others got worse.
    - Electron-based apps:
        - [“The Atom Text Editor has been Able To Edit a 2,000,001 Bytes-Long File \[satire\]”](http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/Atom-Text-Editor-edits-2_000_001-bytes/)
        - [Benchmarks showing Electron apps are super slow and eat memory like there is no tomorrow : r/programming](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/73vua5/benchmarks_showing_electron_apps_are_super_slow/)
    - Software becoming slower and more resource hungry:
        - <https://medium.com/@okaleniuk/premature-optimization-is-the-root-of-all-evil-is-the-root-of-evil-a8ab8056c6b>
        - <https://twitter.com/TheoVanGrind/status/888850519564984322>
        - <https://twitter.com/xbs/status/626781529054834688>
    - Windows Update — slow:
        - [Windows Update Factoids](http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Windows-Update/)
        - Reportedly still breaks the system sometimes
        - Gets invoked at inconvenient times
            - Like at computer shutdown
    - Red Hat’s dnf
        - kinda slow
        - hopefully [will improve](https://rpm-software-management.github.io/announcement/2018/03/22/dnf-3-announcement/)
        - It did seem to improve, at least on my Fedora x86-64 systems. dnf version 5 may be even faster than its predecessors.
    - Mostly Positive: [VLC](https://www.videolan.org/vlc/)
        - Easy to use interface
        - As a general rule,: stable, fast, and predictable.
        - Also popular among many Windows and macOS users.
    - Mostly Positive: [Emscripten](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emscripten) / asm.js / WebAssembly
    - Mostly Positive: [pypy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/PyPy)
        - Fast
    - [KDE’s desktop environment (“Plasma”)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/KDE) ’s update from 3 to 4 was poorly executed (there were many bugs and quirks), and so was the transition from 4 to 5.
        - Seems like most people except for the KDE core developers do not appreciate the emphasis on the so-called [“Activities”](https://askubuntu.com/questions/253990/what-is-a-activity-in-kde-and-what-can-i-do-with-it) instead of on virtual workspaces.
        - <https://bugs.kde.org/show_bug.cgi?id=343246>
        - [http://www.trinitydesktop.org/ (Trinity Desktop Environment)](http://www.trinitydesktop.org/) - fork of KDE 3, continuing its spirit.
        - I mostly use Xfce, which is functional and fast. Like other desktop environments, one can run KDE applications on it.
    - Mostly Positive: [CMake](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CMake)
        - Not perfect but less errorprone and faster than GNU Autotools
        - <http://www.shlomifish.org/open-source/anti/autohell/>
        - [Meson (build-tool)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Meson_(software))
    - Reflections on “Simple” in the context of software:
        - <https://shlomif-tech.livejournal.com/64318.html>
        - “Simple” may imply lacking features or being hard to use.

## Comment I wrote

On <https://medium.com/@okaleniuk/premature-optimization-is-the-root-of-all-evil-is-the-root-of-evil-a8ab8056c6b> :

> Hi! Good article. I should note that based on what I wrote [here](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Optimizing_Code_for_Speed/Factor_Optimizations#Are_%22Small%22_Optimizations_Desirable?) — Prof. Knuth may have been wrong because many small optimisations eventually can add to a significant improvement. Perhaps sometimes an optimisation is not worth it because the program is already fast enough, but I feel that we have accumulated too much junk bloatware recently (see [my notes](https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/computers/high-quality-software/reflections-on-software-quality-trends/) ).
>
> Regarding the “it’s good there is more work for me”, this is the [broken window fallacy](https://shlomif-tech.livejournal.com/741.html) — and it is also echoed in the [“How to become a hacker (not ‘cracker’) howto”](http://www.catb.org/esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html). You likely have better things to do than to fix others’ past failures.

# Licence

This work is copyright by [Shlomi Fish](http://www.shlomifish.org/) and licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-Non Commercial-ShareAlike licence version 4.0 (CC-by-nc-sa)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/) (or any later version). See [my interpretation of it](http://www.shlomifish.org/meta/copyrights/).
