<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Summerschool at the NSA - ~1 Year Later - Reloaded</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish" />
<meta name="description" content="IRPWUG Announces Project “What you see is what you think”" />
<meta name="keywords" content="Shlomi Fish, Shlomi, Fish, Perl, Humour, Israel, Programming, Open Source, Free Software, Presentations, Philosophy, Freecell, Freecell Solver, GIMP, Subversion, version control, Web, Web Design, DeCSS, Software" />
</head>
<body>
<h1>Summerschool at the NSA - ~1 Year Later - Reloaded</h1>
<p>
<b>Last Updated:</b> 9-April-2011.
</p>

<p>
The Summerschool at the NSA meme dates back to a correspondence between
my friend and I back in the haydays of 1997-1998 (with Web 1.0, before the
burst of the bubble) where I said that <q>Even the NSA doesn’t have enough
programmers. But it is not likely that they will have more, and that’s because
Summerschool at the NSA may might as well be the name of Sarah Michelle
Gellar’s next movie.</q> and he rplied that <q>And as opposed to I Know What
You Did Last Summer, it is going to be scary.</q>. It was based on a hunch
based on what I knew about the NSA from fellow Internet people and from
watching the highly recommended film
<a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sneakers_%281992_film%29"><i>Sneakers</i></a>.
</p>

<p>
Many years later in 5 February 2013, I started formulating the
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/NSA/">NSA facts</a> (
similar to Chuck Norris Facts) and somewhat later on 27 February 2013,
I <a href="http://www.advogato.org/article/1071.html">made a post</a> to
Advogato requesting Ms. Gellar to enter the NSA premises and document which
wonders or diswonders she found there.
</p>

<p>
Eventually, on 12 March 2013, I published
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Summerschool-at-the-NSA/">a
    screenplay</a> featuring Ms. Gellar and her younger, and as far as I
know, unmarried and childfree, colleague, <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Summer_Glau">Summer Glau</a> (to whom
I became introduced through the online web-comics
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xkcd">xkcd</a> (and whom seemed
suitable for that). The screenplay mixed and matched xkcd, the Jewish bible
and Jewish folklore, popular American culture, Buffy, Jay-Z’s now immortal
“99 Problems” line, substance abuse clichés, Saladin’s long-misplaced
approach to psychological warfare, My Little Pony, and more into
what is essentially a mostly-realistic, political story.
</p>

<p>
Soon after that the
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edward_Snowden">Snowden</a> leaks were
revealed on June 9 2013. While there may have not been a causation, there
probably is a strong correlation, because people realised that the NSA are
not-something-to-be-afraid-of, harmful, incompetent, and unuseful. While
the Snowden revelations are probably real, many of them are likely
the products of people with
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mania">Manias</a>,
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schizophrenia">Schizophrenia</a>
or <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Major_depressive_disorder">Clinical
depression</a>, which I believe most people at the NSA have developed
due to the inherently secret, selfish, and dishonest, nature of their work
there (see <a href="http://unarmed.shlomifish.org/2615.html">“Publish or
Perish” = “Life or Death”</a>).
</p>

<p>
So what do we do now? Here’s what I did:
</p>

<ol>
<li>
<p>
I relicensed the screenplay and the NSA facts to
<a href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/">CC-by</a> to encourage
derivative works under a different licence (including “All Rights Reserved”)
and as a way to stay ahead of the enemy, and to cast my bread upon the
waters.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
I have done some publicity for the Summerschool at the NSA meme on various
online forums.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
I have written some Chuck Norris-like factoids about
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Summer-Glau/">Summer
Glau</a> inspired by a conversation on the #xkcd channel.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
I encourage everyone to prepare video versions of the screenplay. I don't
need Ms. Gellar’s and Ms. Glau’s cooperation here, because their roles
can be played by other actresses or voice actresses, and I'll be content
to also have a simple Flash or SVG animation.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
I am going to try to interest some local (Israeli) film-makers in my
screenplay, because “The Gods help them that help themselves” and “If I
am not to myself, who will be?”.
</p>
</li>

</ol>

</body>
</html>
