<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE
    html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
    "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>Putting More Cards on The Table (2014)</title>
<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
<meta name="author" content="Shlomi Fish" />
<meta name="description" content="Shlomi Fish’s Homepage" />
<meta name="keywords" content="" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="./style.css" type="text/css" media="screen, projection" title="Normal" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="./print.css" type="text/css" media="print" />
<style type="text/css">
a:hover { background-color: palegreen;}
</style>
</head>
<body>

<h2 id="intro">Introduction</h2>

<p>
Since <a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-all-cards-on-the-table-2013/">“Putting
    All the Cards on the Table (2014)”</a> was written and finalised, I kept
linking to individual sections of it, and it proved to be popular and many
people liked it or individual sections of it. One thing I now regret about it
is the word "All" because I now realise that <b>honesty is a process</b>,
and so is <b>enlightenment</b> and if you stop searching for a bigger and
better “truth”, you stop being honest.
</p>

<p>
Nevertheless, after over a year, I feel that a sequel to it is in order,
collecting and organising <b>a (hopefully large) subset</b> of the various
insights I collected in many posts and insights on various social media
outlets, some stories, screenplays, aphorisms, etc. So here goes.
</p>

<!--

* Amateurs/Hackers/Geeks better than the pros reloaded:
    - Christina Grimmie.
        - Feeling Good.
* Sexual attractiveness -> Competence (And vice-versa).
* Avicii - Wake me up.
    - What is wisdom?
    - Cynicism (what neo-tech calls "mysticism").
        - our main enemy as a civilisation and as an individual.
* Change brings change.
    - Sesame Street.
    - Crime&Punishment -> Ayn Rand -> My screenplays & stories.
    - The Tanakh vs. Shakespeare.
* How to run an election.
    - http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/human-hacking/human-hacking-field-guide-v2/homecoming_queen.html
    - Snyder in http://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Buffy/A-Few-Good-Slayers/ongoing-text.html
* Independence.
    - asking/paying people for help.
    - asking/paying people for advice.
-->
<h2 id="playing_the_invisible">My biggest mistake - playing the
    “The Invisible”</h2>

<p>
For a long time now, I wanted to achieve greatness: be extremely
famous, have my stories be read, have my web-site be visited countless of
times, and become a household name, and also earn a lot of money in the
process (to allow me to travel, be able to afford going out, etc.). However,
having read in several places that “The Invisible Hacker is the
most powerful” (a hacker is a talented worker that bends the rules,
and for what “hacker” means, see
<a href="http://catb.org/~esr/faqs/hacker-howto.html">“How to become a
    hacker”</a> and Paul Graham’s
<a href="http://www.paulgraham.com/gba.html">The word “Hacker”</a>), I decided
to play it “The Invisible”. So I remained a relatively unknown
software developer based in Tel Aviv, Israel, who studied Electrical
Engineering in the Technion, who was constantly looking for jobs, and who
found a lot of joy in working on
<a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">his personal web site</a>, various pieces
of open source software, and has been doing a lot of one-to-one, one-to-many
and many-to-many communications on the Internet. I was happy, but constantly
had periods of hypomanias.
</p>

<p>
I gradually felt that I was controlling everything behind the scenes, and
finding trends right before they became mainstream, and having slowly gain
popularity by word of mouth, and influencing people, but I kinda hated it.
Some people can be quiet and benevolent value producers doing ordinary things.
But not me - I want to be very good, not play “The Invisible”. I am not a
follower of trends - I set trends. And I want to be recognised for the truly
great accomplishments that I have accomplished, am still accomplishing, and am
planning on continuing to accomplish.
</p>

<p>
Note that this is not about being what Americans call “a winner” and win
1st place at some silly competition of who has the highest grade average or
the highest television rating ever. I don't care about that too much, but
I do care about being acknowledged. My stories are not perfect, but it is
their imperfection and sometimes sloppiness that makes them perfect.
</p>

<!--
To add:
=======

* What's wrong with classical Randianism.
    - Proprietariness.
        - trade secrets.
    - polygamy / polyamorous instead of monogamy.

* Embrace change.

* Difference between men and women
    - My pupil claiming that writing Perl scripts for her was similar to
    delivering a baby.
    - My female American friend about crying for hours after watching
    Silver Linings Playbook.
        - I found the film amusing and inspirational and left the cinema
        happy and exalted.

* Auctioning my stories.
    - Saladin
    - Farangis

* Temporal experiences are the best.
    - Mosheh and David and the collection cassette of "Ha'olam Haerev".
        - “But a chat with Mosheh from Ha'olam ha'erev - 100 Sheqels!"
    - In this day of digitisation, we have less energy for “stuff”:
        - Paul Graham's http://www.paulgraham.com/stuff.html
    - Most of the things I have are of utility:
        - A backpack.
        - wallet
        - money.
        - keys
        - mobile phone.
        - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pencil_case

* Laziness vs. Productivity.
    + - Momo
    + - Q2
    + - EA Spouse.
    + - Why distraction is helpful.
        - http://www.fysh.org/~katie/computing/no-net-access.txt
            - by Katie Lucas
    - The Beurocracy scheme.
        - Preventing productive people from getting things done.
            - need to file forms, send letters (including snail mail
            ones), make phone calls, and wait for people who are lazy
            and never do enough.

* The problem with maths education.
    - "There is no King's Road to Mathematics".
        - It's ok to jump between topics to spark interest.
    - too much rigour .
    - No pair work.
    - Not open material.
    - memorise too many proofs.
        - need to be a Captain Nemo.
        - Why???
        - Maths can be deeply spiritual.
            - some proofs are beautiful.
        - Solution:

* Israelis and being a "frayer" / "sucker".

* http://www.paulgraham.com/say.html
    - http://www.flickr.com/photos/shlomif/8424748431/in/photostream/
    - Putting photos of a girl I met on IRC on my wallpaper.
    - Saying there is a hot chick outside.
        - "Ewww! You're going to photograph her"
            - I was not.
    - Asking someone I met on IRC for photos of his girlfriend so I can enjoy
    looking at her.
        - Him thinking it was creepy.
    - The Linux kernel Linus Torvalds bus factor:
        - http://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/computers/open-source/linus-torvalds-bus-factor/
        - not a falsehood, but an http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Elephant_in_the_room


-->

<h2 id="licence">Licence</h2>

<p>
This work is copyright by <a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi Fish</a>
and licensed under the
<a href="http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/" rel="license">Creative
    Commons Attribution-Non Commercial licence version 3.0</a> (or any later
version). See <a href="http://www.shlomifish.org/meta/copyrights/">my
interpretation of it</a>.
</p>

</body>
</html>
