<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>What's New on www.shlomifish.org - November 2019.</title>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>Taylor Swift Factoids; Relicensing Works Offer; New Essays</h2>

<!-- Tags: open, humour, humor, facts, chuck norris, quotes
-->

<p>
Here are the recent updates for <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/">Shlomi
Fish’s Homepage</a>.
</p>

<ol>

<li>
<p>
<a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/Terminator/Liberation/"><i>Terminator: Liberation</i></a> is a new work-in-progress fanfic/crossover screenplay:
</p>
<blockquote>

<p>
A self-referential parody of the <a
href="https://terminator.fandom.com/wiki/Terminator_(franchise)">Terminator
franchise</a>, with <a href="$(ROOT)/humour/bits/facts/Emma-Watson/">Emma
Watson</a> as herself and as the evil terminator Hanna, with <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arnold_Schwarzenegger">Arnold
Schwarzenegger</a> as himself and as the good terminator, that takes place in
<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tel_Aviv">Tel Aviv</a> during <a
href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Passover">Passover</a> (when <a
href="https://shlomif.fandom.com/wiki/Olamot_Con">Olamot Con</a> takes place).
</p>

</blockquote>
</li>

<li>
<p>
There are new questions and answers in the <a
href="https://www.shlomifish.org/meta/FAQ/">Frequently Asked Questions (FAQ)
List</a>.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
I am offering to <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/me/relicensing-my-entire-portfolio-under-cc-by/">relicense</a>
all the cultural works I created and placed on my site under <a
href="https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/">CC-by</a> if I get 10 million Euro.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
There is a new essay titled
<a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/philosophy/putting-cards-on-the-table-2019-2020/">Putting Cards on the Table (2019-2020)</a> which aims to provide a snapshot of Rindolfism, my personal philosophy:
</p>

<blockquote>

<p>The Israeli military was small and as there was a lot of work to
do to properly secure the Israeli civilians it coined the terms
<a class="link" href=
"https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2004/12/06/news-45/">Rosh gadol
("big minded") and Rosh qatan ("small minded")</a> to encourage the
soldiers to take initiative and try to perform their jobs as well
as possible, regardless of the fact they were paid little.</p>
<p>This extends to non-military work, government work, and
voluntary work or hobbies and endeavours: if you care about
something, do it as well as possible and give it enough time as
needed. It will get easier and faster in time.</p>
<p>For instance, a vendor on a candy store or an icecream parlour,
should try to greet the customers, be friendly to them, offer
recommendations to them if they ask, accept business cards with
their personal web sites or social media presence and visit them,
and generally treat every customer like royalty.</p>
<p>If you do this, you'll likely get more returning customers,
bigger tips, bigger bonuses and raises, and you may be able to land
a better job based on a warm recommendation from your superiors and
coworkers.</p>
<p>The opposite is just following orders blindly, "I just work
here" attitude, which is no different from the Nazis' <a class=
"link" href=
"https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Superior_orders">Superior orders -
"I was only following orders"</a> which leads to laziness,
stagnation, vandalism and sadism, just like the German Nazis in
World War II, or the Knights Templar in Saladin's time.</p>

</blockquote>
</li>

<li>
<p>
There is a new collection of <a
href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Taylor-Swift/">factoids
about Taylor Swift</a> as well as new <a
href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Chuck-Norris/">Chuck Norris
factoids</a> and new <a
href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/Emma-Watson/">Emma Watson
factoids</a>:
</p>

<ul>
<li>
<blockquote>

<p>If Apple ever tried to sue Taylor Swift for trademark violations
of Apple Swift, they will spend all their money on litigation, and
still lose. This will make many lawyers richer, and the world a
better place.</p>

</blockquote>
</li>

<li>
<blockquote>

<p>Chuck Norris’s roundhouse kicks are licensed under the public
domain because no one besides him can duplicate them.</p>

</blockquote>
</li>

<li>
<blockquote>

<p>Emma Watson played Hermione in the Harry Potter films, but she
doesn’t need a wand to kick your ass and wipe it on the floor.</p>

</blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<a
href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/culture/my-real-person-fan-fiction/">"Why
I will continue to write my real person fan fiction (fanfic)"</a> is an essay
about why real person fiction appears to hurt Hollywood actors
and why it cannot hurt singers or YouTubers.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
<a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/psychology/why-openly-bipolar-people-should-not-be-medicated/">"Why Openly Bipolar People Should Not Be Medicated"</a> is a new essay.
</p>
</li>

<li>
<p>
The site's pages have been converted from <a href="https://github.com/thewml/website-meta-language">Website Meta Language</a> which is slow and errorprone
to <a href="http://template-toolkit.org/">Templa Toolkit</a> which is
faster and more predictable.
</p>
</li>

</ol>

<p>
Hope you enjoy all that!
</p>

</body>
</html>
