<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-US">
<head>
<title>What's New on www.shlomifish.org - May 2021.</title>
<meta charset="utf-8" />
</head>
<body>

<h2>The Commercial Fanfiction Initiative</h2>

<!-- Tags: open, humour, humor, facts, chuck norris, quotes, taylor swift, essays
-->

<p>
The biggest news is the <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/culture/case-for-commercial-fan-fiction/">commercial fanfiction initiative</a>,
which aims to make the film industry flourish just like
open music on youtube/etc. or FOSS in the software world.
The scope is somewhat larger, covering accepting screenplays
in easier-to-write formats, and being communicative about why
a screenplay was rejected.
</p>

<p>
Some people online told me "commercial fanfiction will never happen"
and two fellow writers of (gratis, Internet-hosted) fanfiction said
it will be "unethical" to try to profit off other writers' hard work.
However, I recall people expressing similar sentiments about <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_and_open-source_software">open source software</a>
and <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/case-for-file-swapping/">early
music file swapping / file sharing / "piracy"</a>
and Wikipedia… I often grow older and more foolish, and some people
do support the cause.
</p>

<p>
I also wouldn't call the current situation with many beautiful, competent,
and either famous or budding actors and actresses unemployable, a lack
of screenplay submissions, franchise fatigue, and film makers and
executives increasingly feeling depressed and trapped and
general watchers satisfaction "ethical". The enemies of commercial
fanfic are recent bylaws, and court precendents. <b>Guidelines!</b>
</p>

<p>
And I have a plan forward, which isn't set in stone, and may
require improvisation, and may fail.
</p>

<p>
<b>Other stuff:</b>
</p>

<p>
<a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/image-macros/">Image macros ("captioned images", "memes")</a> page,
and <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/true-stories/">a subsection
of short true stories</a>,
and <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/fortunes/">new quotes</a>
and <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/humour/bits/facts/">new factoids</a>
and <a href="https://www.shlomifish.org/philosophy/psychology/crossover-hypothesis-about-the-origin-of-consciousness/">a farfetched crossover hypothesis</a>
about the origins of consciousness and insanity.
</p>

</body>
</html>
